# [vicsy/dev](https://github.com/codr4life/vicsydev) | on Empathy
posted March 3rd 2017, 8:00pm

### empathy
The prevailing attitude among peers in today's software industry is one of fierce competition; the general consensus seems to be that there are a fixed number of seats on the bus to success, which makes it imperative to shoot down anyone who's trying. While there's plenty of talk about empathy, the kind of empathy that's usually preached is the kind that makes users happy and lets management off the hook. There is, however; another, more authentic kind of empathy. The kind that recognizes that we're all one, literally; the kind that knows that when someone wins, we all win; the kind that never wishes for anyone to loose.

### changing direction
Ten years ago, I took a 20m fall to the ground while out mountain climbing with a friend; smashing one of my vertibraes and setting me up for a life time of chronic pain. I was 20 years into a successful developer career at the time, bringing home $5k a month (a pretty tasty chunk of salary in Sweden/Denmark/Portugal at the time); and expected to be able to continue my independent life style for quite some time. While I wouldn't trade the change of direction for anything in the world, I often miss not having to worry about money for essentials like rent, food and medicine. For several years I tried to get back in the saddle; to find companies desperate enough for my experience to be willing to compromise enough on rules and regulations for me to feel at home. Which finally brought me to the point where I briefly considered giving up on software entirely, since human needs no longer seem to be on the radar.

### sharing
I've spent 32 years of my life diligently practicing the art of creating in software on a daily basis, and I still feel the need to express myself creatively and share my discoveries. So for the last year or so, I've been doing [exactly that](https://github.com/codr4life); going all in to share my ideas openly with the world. Hundreds of thousands of people have read [the](http://vicsydev.blogspot.de/) [articles](https://github.com/codr4life/vicsydev) I've written and hundreds of people showed interest in the code. But despite all the activity around, and interest in the articles and projects I've posted; and despite repeatedly reaching out and [asking for help](https://www.paypal.me/c4life); to this day, not a single person bothered enough to help out. While $20 might not seem worth the effort for many, to me it means having half of my weekly medicine costs covered. Talking about empathy still seems to be a lot more popular than actually practicing it.

peace, out
